hey everyone today we're going to talk
about how to change chords and this is
more of a lesson for beginners who have
just learned how to play G C D a minor a
major e-minor and in a lot of cases what
I see with with students who are just
learning some chords is that they can
play each chord individually but
changing between the chords is difficult
and it makes sense because most of these
chords require us to be doing something
with three fingers so to change from one
chord to another means that we have to
have three of our fingers going in
different directions at the same time
and that's not very easy but what I'm
going to show you here is a way to break
down these chord changes into their
individual parts and then build each one
of them up into a full chord change
which can help you to get better very
very quickly and not get yourself into a
situation where you try and change
chords and you lift one up and then your
hand freaks out because it really
doesn't know where it's going so let's
take a look at switching from a G chord
to a D chord so this is one of the
fingerings of G and you can do with any
eat anything green you want you can do
with this one if you want to with the
third finger and the pinkie but most
people start out learning this one where
we've got our second finger on the third
fret of the six string first finger on
the second fret of the fifth string and
third finger on the third fret of the
first string and then we want to go to a
D chord which is first finger finger on
the second fret of the 3rd string third
finger on the third fret of the second
string and second finger on the second
fret of the first string
so that's what going back and forth
between these two chords looks like but
if we want to break it down especially
for beginners who want to learn how to
start getting from chord to chord is to
look at where each individual finger
needs to go so I start with the first
finger it's on the second fret of the
fifth string and if I want to change
just my first finger from where it needs
to be for G chord to where it needs to
be for D chord all I need to do is move
it here to the 2nd fret of the 3rd
string so here it is within the cord and
then here it is by itself now that is
not a very difficult motion I can do the
same thing for my other fingers here's
my second finger third fret of the sixth
string needs to come over here to the
2nd fret of the first string for the D
chord G d
now my third finger starts out on the
3rd fret of the first string for a G
chord moves down to the 3rd fret of the
second string for a D chord and you
don't have to put your fingers away I'm
kind of putting the place you can see
what what might what the individual
fingers doing that's spreading the notes
so your hand would probably look more
like this so here it is within the
chords now once you're comfortable with
that you can move up to combinations of
two fingers at a time so my first and
second fingers for a G chord are going
to be here for a D chord I'm going to
need to move them over here and all I'm
doing is I'm i'm putting together the
individual movements of the individual
fingers that we just went through now if
I want to do my first and third fingers
and now if I want to do my second and
third fingers now this is the one that
gets most people because you have to
move your fingers in opposite directions
so my third finger needs to extend my
second finger needs to flex so I'm
really going from this to this and
that's that's kind of a difficult motion
for people who have never played the
guitar before but if you take the extra
finger out of the equation for a while
at least you can isolate the motion and
you can even go so far as to move one
finger at a time so I'm going to take my
second finger and move it and then i'm
taking my third finger and move it i can
reverse it if i want to i'm taking my
third finger and move it then i'm taking
my second finger and move it and as you
get better at doing those things one at
a time your body will kind of by itself
learn how to do them simultaneously and
then once you're comfortable with all of
those one finger movements all of the
two finger movements and you can put it
all together try to move all three of
your fingers at the same time this is a
great way to learn how to change from
any chord to any chord so you can go
from D to C C to a minor this can apply
to any change it doesn't even have to be
chords anywhere on the neck for any song
that you're learning if you've got to do
more than one thing at a time break it
down do one finger and do the other
finger do a third finger if you need to
and then start putting it all together
now if you want to do the alternate G
fingering this one's actually even
easier for some people because there's a
finger that you don't have to move so if
I've got this fingering where I've got
both of these fingers up here I've got
my third finger on the third fret of the
second string and then I've got my
pinkie on the 3rd fret of the first
string to switch from D to G I don't
even have to pick up my third finger I
just
it on it
and in this case I'm not using my pinky
for the D chord I'm just picking that up
and this is another case where just go
through what each finger needs to do and
then start adding up the fingers two at
a time and then three at a time and you
should be able to switch back and forth
between those chords much easier very
very quickly so thanks for visiting why
suck at guitar com see you next time